Description
Length 1.5-1.7 mm. Shortly oval, strongly convex, broadest at middle, pronotal and elytral margins not explanate; entirely black above, often with a slight, greenish-metallic reflection; underside black in mature specimens, legs, especially tarsi, somewhat lighter. Head between eyes as long as breadth across vertex, distinctly narrowed from base of clypeus to vertex; frontal punctures a little larger than eye facets, separated by 1 diameter, intervals smooth, pubescence subrecumbent, forwardly directed, not obscuring underlying surface. Pronotum with anterior border distinctly arcuate medially, distance between anterior angles 0.7 that between hind angles; lateral borders arcuately convergent anteriorad, more strongly so for anterior third; discal punctures similar in size to those of frons, separated by 1 diameter or less, punctures near scutellum more closely set, punctures on lateral margins up to twice as large as those of disc and separated by 0.5 diameter or less; intervals smooth; pubescence subrecumbent, forwardly directed except on lateral margins where it turns outward. Elytra almost as broad as long; punctures of disc and margins similar to those of pronotal disc, separated by from 1 to 2 diameters, intervals smooth; pubescence suberect, variably directed to form a whorled pattern including a distinct, inwardly turned median patch. Prosternum with intercoxal process little 0.5 times as broad at apex as basal mesoventral border; punctures on process shallow, variably spaced, similar in size to those elsewhere on prosternum, surface near apex appearing longitudinally rugulose; mesoventrite with hind border shallowly angled medially, punctures of disc similar to those of prosternal process, but sometimes more sparsely set, intervals smooth; punctures of metaventral disc 0.5 diameter of mesoventral punctures, separated by several diameters except immediately behind middle coxae, a lightly impressed longitudinal median groove usually present. Abdomen with postcoxal plates of 1st ventrite usually evenly curved; punctures of intercoxal process much larger than those of metaventral disc, separated by 1 diameter or more, punctures closer toward hind margin of ventrite; median length of 5th ventrite c. equal to that of ventrites 2-4 together, apical border evenly arcuate, discal punctures small, often separated by several diameters, discal intervals almost smooth, but obvious microsculpture present toward anterolateral angles; punctures across discs of ventrites 3 and 4 reduced to a single row on each.

Male
All tarsal claws bifid, inner tooth a little shorter on middle and hind legs. Male genitalia as illustrated.

Female
Tarsal claws very shallowly appendiculate.

