

Description
Length 1.50-1.85 mm. Oval; convex; broadest at middle of length; outer margins of pronotum and elytra distinctly explanate; upper surfaces entirely black or pitchy-black; underside and legs also pitchy-black. Head with frons longer than greatest width, not strongly widened from clypeus to vertex; frontal punctures distinctly larger than eye facets, separated by 1 diameter or slightly less, intervals smooth, setae white, subrecumbent, not obscuring surface of frons. Pronotum with lateral borders strongly convergent from obtuse posterior to briefly rounded anterior angles; discal punctures a little larger than those of frons, separated by 1 diameter or less, closer toward basal margin, punctures smaller and sparser along anterior margin, a little larger and more closely set along concave lateral margins; intervals smooth; pubescence subrecumbent, for the most part directed forward, directed sideways along lateral margins. Elytra as long as greatest combined breadth; punctures similar in size and spacing to those of lateral pronotal margins; intervals smooth; pubescence similar to that of pronotum, not whorled, mostly directed posterolaterally, but setae toward basal margin outwardly directed. Prosternum with apex of intercoxal process 0.5 times as broad as angled base of mesoventrite, punctures of process small, irregularly spaced, setiferous; mesoventral punctures deep, larger than those of prosternal process, usually separated by 1 diameter or less; metasternum with punctures of anteromedian area as large and as closely set as those of mesoventrite, punctures elsewhere smaller, irregularly spaced, scattered. Abdomen with postcoxal plates of 1st ventrite recurved, punctures between hind coxae large, similar to those of mesoventrite; 5th ventrite not quite as long in midline as ventrites 2-4 together, apical border more less evenly arcuate, surface between punctures for the most part smooth; punctures across discs of ventrites 3 and 4 reduced to a single row.


Male
Tarsal claws of all legs bifid, inner claws on middle and hind legs shorter than those on anterior legs. Male genitalia as illustrated.


Female
Differs from male only in that the tarsal claws are all shallowly appendiculate.

