

Description
Length 1.3-1.5 mm. Dark brown to pitch black dorsally, dark reddish brown ventrally; head in front, trochanters and meso and metafemora light brown, antennae, tibiae and tarsi dirty yellowish. Winged; body shape hemispherical; pronotal margins with narrow rim, visible from above; elytra with inconspicuous swelling near humeral edge; elytral margins with narrow rim, visible from above on the entire length. Head, pronotal and elytral surface shiny; head virtually impunctate above, finely punctate in front, covered in long sparse setae. Pronotum evenly covered in sparse fine puntures and long sparse setae. Scutellum elongate, triangular, flat, shiny, glabrous. Elytra impunctate with a few long setae in basal fifth and two rows of setae along margin, the marginal one with more densely spaced setae, the submarginal one only with few setae. Head with moderately large eyes, separated by 2.0 times eye width; flattened medially. Clypeus flat, long, straight anteriorly. Terminal maxillary palpomere moderately broad, oval, obliquely truncate apically, terminal labial palpomere narrow and aciculate. Antenna 9-segmented, scape weakly expanded apically, club elongate, inner margin almost straight, apex angular. Prosternum mat, surface weakly furrowed, sparsely setose; mesosternum shiny, impunctate, glabrous; metasternum shiny, with two groups of densely spaced punctures and associated setae near the middle and two groups of sparsely spaced punctures and associated setae near hind edges. Elytral epipleuron light brownish, broad, flat or weakly excavate, perpendicular to elytron in anterior half, with some long setae, narrowing to a mere rim in apical half. Anterior margin of profemur strongly angled slightly beyond the middle. Tarsus 4-segmented. Abdomen: ventrite 1 large, shiny and sparsely setose; ventrites 2-5 small; ventrites 2-4 transversely furrowed bearing a transverse row of setae; ventrite 5 shiny, sparsely punctured, bearing a few long setae. Last ventrite not grooved laterally.

